how to get more social engagement when
reach is declining Facebook organic
reach is way down I remember being able
to post a link on Facebook and being
able to get thousands of clicks and it's
not just Facebook social media in
general has been declining social media
referrals have been stagnant at five
percent of all traffic for quite some
time the average Facebook post will
reach only five percent of your
followers here's what happened Facebook
made some changes and there are two
primary reasons why organic reach is
weighed out one there's more content
there's so much content being published
that there's actually more content being
published than there is space in the
news feed
510 000 comments and 293
000 statuses are posted on Facebook
every single minute to give you idea of
how much content is being created and
personalized news feeds are way more
important now so Facebook tailors what
they show each and every single person
just like they do on Tick Tock which can
really hurt your reach when you're
posting and expecting that your friends
see your content and this just isn't on
Facebook alone it's on most social
networks Instagram reaches dying YouTube
is Tick Tock is most social networks do
this because it also helps them with ad
Revenue so what does this mean for
businesses you don't have a
straightforward Avenue to reach your
audience to put it simply your reach is
smaller that means Facebook and
Instagram and all those people they're
prioritizing friends content over
business pages that means fewer if any
engagement is waiting there for most
your posts and this also causes the rise
of paid ads so that way these platforms
can make more money but I'll tell you
right now social media is massive and
more massive than ever with nearly 4
billion users worldwide so your audience
is still there you just have to find a
way to tap into them and grow
organically here's what you can do to
maximize your organic reach
strategy number one post at the perfect
time trust me no matter how good your
content is if you post at the wrong time
simply isn't going to get seen so you
got to make sure you're posting the
content when people are gonna be most
likely to see it according to who's
Suite A study of over 30 000 social
media posts there are definitely days
and times that get more engagement even
with Organic reach decline the best
overall time to post is 10 a.m on
Tuesdays Wednesdays and Thursdays the
best time to post on Instagram is 11AM
on Wednesdays the best time to post on
Twitter is 8 am on Mondays and Thursdays
the best time to post on LinkedIn is 9am
on Tuesdays and Wednesdays and the best
time to post on Tick Tock is 7 P.M on
Thursdays with these times you got to
keep in mind their focus on your ideal
audience and your followers time zones
right so if all my followers are mainly
in the United States I may want to try
like seven you know PM PST versus 7 PM
EST and see what works best
and as your accounts grow tweak your
posting schedule accordingly so that way
you can reach them and a little bit of
testing around those times will help you
determine how to get the most reach
strategy number two just show your face
you got an amazing beautiful pretty
handsome face I don't care what anyone
else thinks it's amazing she'll show it
it's an easy way to get more likes and
comments according to a study analyzing
over 1.1 million Instagram photos the
Georgia Institute of Technology and
Yahoo Labs found that posts with
pictures containing faces do way better
how much better there are 38 more likely
to receive likes and 32 percent more
likely to get commented on so show your
pace don't be ashamed of how you look
because again you are beautiful and
here's the thing you're your audience
will also not be able to identify with
your brand nearly as well if your
faceless entity there's nothing for them
to connect with look at Tesla look at
SpaceX Elon is a face behind them
Zuckerberg face behind Facebook Bill
Gates face behind Microsoft
strategy 3 Target your audience listen
we all want to go viral but what's the
point of getting a ton of likes if none
of them result in a conversion getting
likes is just a vanity metric what's the
revenue what's a traffic driven to your
website what's the conversions how many
emails did you get are sms's you want to
hyper Focus your marketing efforts on
the Right audience so think about the
content that your ideal audience wants
you to create and create that you can
actually figure that out by using tools
like answer the public and typing in
keywords related to your space and it'll
tell you what those people are
interested in and go create content
around that yes you may not get as many
likes but you get likes from the Right
audience will drive more conversions
strategy four add Integrations and
customizations to your page you might be
trying to grow your audience on Facebook
but that doesn't mean all of your posts
can't integrate other tools and apps and
platforms it immediately makes your page
more user-friendly and definitely
amplifies your marketing I love to
include various Integrations and
customization on my page stuff like
custom tab Labs email capture forms
podcasts video players quizzes polls
landing pages contest apps blogs and
even RSS feeds and way more now not all
social networks do that you can do a lot
of that on Facebook
and they support a lot of Integrations
and products and even some of their own
ones like messenger and it's a great way
to engage more with your audience
strategy five test your posting
frequency if you think there's a magic
number for how often you should post on
Instagram or Facebook think again it
depends on your brand major websites
like Huffington Post in New York Times
publish a ton of content every single
day because people want the up-to-date
news right then and there but for you
that doesn't make as much sense so don't
go posting 20 times a day engagement
actually decreases when you post too
often on Facebook and most social
networks like Instagram and Linkedin you
can get away with posting maybe one or
two times a day just fine look the last
thing I want to emphasize on is Facebook
Instagram Tick Tock all the other social
networks out there they're always going
to change your brand just has to roll
with it so that way you can get the
maximum engagement use the data at your
fingertips to do well and if you just
want my Ad Agency NPD digital to do it
all for you just check us out at
npdigital.com if you have questions
leave a comment below I'm here to help
you out if you enjoyed the video like it
share it tell the people about it thank
you very much